Using the lm_sensors2 and i2c CVS archives
------------------------------------------
(This is based on mails from Philip and William, and edited by Frodo)

Anybody can now use CVS to access the code archive. CVS allows you to get
the latest and greatest version of lm_sensors, or any older version.
You need the rcs and cvs package, which can be retrieved from any GNU
mirror site (prep.ai.mit.edu is the master site).

1) Go to the directory where you want the lm_sensors2 (or i2c or lm_sensors)
   directory to reside with the project source code.  A good choice is
   your home directory.

2) Assuming you have cvs installed (many distributions do include it).
   Type:
     cvs -d :pserver:anon@penn.netroedge.com:/home/cvs login
   And type in "anonymous" at the password prompt.

3) Then to check out a project (in this case 'lm_sensors2'), type:
     cvs -d :pserver:anon@penn.netroedge.com:/home/cvs checkout lm_sensors2
   Use "lm_sensors2" for the 2.x tree; use "i2c" for the i2c tree.
   If you _really_ want the ancient lm_sensors (1.x) tree, use "lm_sensors"
   (although nobody is making changes to this tree).

4) Now you have a directory named "lm_sensors2" with all
   the files in it. In a day or two when there have been some changes to
   some of the files, you can do something like this to update your files
   to the CVS archive's (be sure to be inside the lm_sensors2 directory for
   this to work):
     cvs update

If you want to be able to commit changes yourself, you need a real login
(as opposed to the anon login used above). Run the script
doc/developers/genpasswd.pl and follow the instructions to
get a login.

Some often-used CVS commands:
(-z3 is for compression, which speeds things up on slow links)

* login again (usually not needed)
    cvs -z3 login
* get the most recent versions of the sources
    cvs -z3 update
* commit your changes
    cvs -z3 commit

When you commit, it will bring up an editor (probably vi) and ask you to
summarize your changes. Be verbose! we've also set things up so that everybody
gets an email whenever somebody checks in some changes which tells them the
names of the changed files and also the log message; we can turn this off for
you if you find it annoying.

It might be a good idea to browse the CVS documentation; you can do lots of
neat stuff like set watches on files. Also if you encounter conflicts you'll
need to know what to do. There is a short manpage, and a rather extensive
info manual (try 'info cvs').

Be warned that the CVS archive is not always stable or safe, or will even
compile. Review the CHANGES document in CVS for issues that may affect you.
Sometimes files are committed with known bugs. This is usually reported in
the commit logs or on our mailing list; non-developers will receive neither
(though you can ask cvs to show the logs, even if you only have a anon
acount).
